We must learn to make presentations
that are attractive from the visual
perspective, from the perspective
of the message, of the content,
of the structure, etc.
This is what we call the pitch
deck, which is the presentation
that is used to communicate
with investors, to communicate
with the ecosystem, etc.
You probably call it a business plan,
but in the world of startup
it’s called a pitch deck.
And we will do the following.
First, we will share
a few general advice.
In addition, we will propose a deck
proposal with a concrete structure,
which is inspired by the recommendations
of Sequoia Capital, which
is one of the world’s most
important venture capital
companies.
You can adapt it to your own situation,
but it is good to have it.
And what we’re going to do is share
a series of Powerpoint
presentations, empty, so that
you can inspire yourself
in them or pick it up and adapt
the colors, put your logo,
change the texts, etc.
Let’s start with the advice.
I would tell you that the pitch deck
doesn’t have to have more than 10
or 15 slides, it doesn’t
have to be too long.
In each slide, we should
communicate
an idea.
These slides in which there are thousands of
things that are difficult to understand, etc.
A lot of laughter.
Avoid bullet points.
It is better to invest some time
in making a presentation that
is a bit more aesthetic, more
graphic, more visual, and that
is not listed with bullet points.
The less text the better.
There is a maximum that is the less
text you put in a presentation,
on a web page, etc.
There is a greater likelihood that you will read
this text.
It must be enough text
to not generate excessive
doubts, but not boring.
And lastly, what is very obvious,
is that it is important to take care of
the design.
And I know this is not easy because
a lot of people have never done a presentation,
but it is important to take
care of the design because the image
you are, the message you are transmitting
if your presentation is shitty,
because it generates a
lot of uncertainty.
It’s like getting a curriculum.
You get two curriculum vitae from two
people with the same professional
experience.
One is aesthetically careful and
the other is not.
The message is not just a subject
of making it more attractive to see,
but the message you are sending is
much more powerful, because you are
sending a message that you are a
careful person, that you have done
it with mime, that you care about the
detail, etc.
You have in mind that in very many
startups one of the back keys
will be, for example, that you
are able to load an attractive brand.
Well, then if your deck is shabby,
because it’s hard for someone to
believe in you, that they believe
you’ll be able to load an attractive
brand.
We will see a proposed structure
of pitch deck and also we will
see it on this presentation
that you can download
in PowerPoint and you can
adapt the aesthetics.
We will also give you more presentations
so you can get more
resources.
The structure we propose in principle
is this, it is inspired by the recommendation
of Secuio Capital, which is
one of the largest venture capital
in the world and we have made
some small adaptation.
We will go and see block
by block.
We should start with a one-
line or a short text in which
we explain in a very simple and
very synthesized way what
we do for who and why.
Because it helps, because in the first slide
you already help the interlocutor to understand
what we are talking about.
And here I leave you some examples,
for example Airbnb book
rooms with locals or locals
better than hotels.
Well, it is very easy to understand.
In the case of YouTube, for
example, they incorporated it
purpose, mission or vision.
The next block is the problem.
We need to define, identify and
make very clear what
the problem is currently.
Not just what the problem is,
but how our target audience
is currently solving that problem.
I’m going to give you an example of Uber,
which shows how the taxi world was
in 2008.
The YouTube page explains
the problems in a very simple
way.
The video files are too
large, too heavy, and
can’t be sent by email.
It is very well explained.
You have to be very specific.
Look at Airbnb, as it explains.
The price is a big concern for
many people when they have to
book online travel, hotels,
etc.
Explain in detail what problems
people had at the
time and what Airbnb
has solved.
So now is the next point.
We need to explain what solutions
we are giving to these specific
problems.
How we will make the lives of
our customers better.
Check out Airbnb.
Save money, make money and
also live experiences,
share culture.
At this point it is convenient
the more you can describe, the
better you can describe how your
product is.
Screenshots, imagine you
have an app, app screenshots,
functionalities, etc.
The more you help to
tangibly it, the much better.
Here, for example, we could
rely on customer testimonials
if you have them.
That is, be creative and all you
can help to better understand the
product and the value it brings,
much better.
The next block is
related to opportunity,
it is related to why now.
And here what we can support ourselves
is, for example, market
trends.
Imagine you’re relying on a technology
that will grow in the coming
years, etc.
Well, you have to convince your
interlocutor that there is actually
an opportunity to undertake this
project now.
The next important point
is the size of the market.
Remember that no one will invest
in projects where, in addition
to high risk, the size of the
market is limited.
So you have to convince
that there is indeed
a market large enough
to create a giant company.
In the case of Uber, then well, it
gives the data of the taxi market
at that time.
And look at Airbnb, as
it describes it very simply.
This has to be the aesthetics of the deck,
because very graphic, that is understood
very well, etc.
We will give you resources
so you can do it.
The next point is competition.
We have to identify what our
direct and indirect competition
is, even what the future competition
may be.
You have to do a competitor
analysis.
We should analyze what they are
better than us, what we are
better than them, what competitive
advantage we could
develop, etc.
If you do it in a very graphic
way, better.
Look at the case of Airbnb, which does it
in a matrix, depending on whether transactions
are online, offline, whether
they are more or less expensive, etc.
Or here we have the case of
Mixpanel, which, well, that does
the same, very graphically, places
all its competitors.
Let’s now go to the business
model, that is, how we will
make money.
We need to explain it in the
simplest way possible.
Airbnb is very simple, because it is
very easy to do this.
10% is paid as a commission
on each transaction.
And what it does is quantify the
market and estimate the revenue it
will generate in the coming years.
Go with the team.
The equipment, as you know,
is very important because investors
usually invest in people.
And really one of the keys is
not only that your project
makes sense, is viable,
is reversible, but that
you and your team are trained
to take it forward.
Therefore, you must highlight
what your values, your competences,
your experience, etc. are.
We should also incorporate,
whenever possible, a slide in
which we are detailing what
we have achieved, what we have
achieved, what the attraction is.
And you can do it by making a projection,
imagine, with some metrics, or
you could put it in landmarks.
This depends on what you have achieved.
In the case of buffer, for example,
they explain a series of
bullets what the data is as
to users, as to income, as
to margin, etc.
And what were the different milestones,
the different milestones?
In the case of front, what they talk about
in this slide is that they have been
very efficient using capital.
And finally, the last of the blocks,
would have to incorporate certain
financial, economic and financial data.
There is no need to get bored here,
but it would be good, if we have
them, to incorporate historical
data and also some projections of
the main magnitudes of the
balance sheet, or mainly
results such as EBITDA, such as
net profit, etc., or cash
flows.
As we can see on the screen, there
is no need to be excessive detail.
In addition, we should give,
for example, if you are raising
capital, you should give information
about the previous rounds you
have earned, what you have spent
that money on and what you will
use the money you will now get
in the next round.